it's you that goes backwards it's you're
not telling me that you fail you're not
you've never said that to me right you
say that when I am actually making
progress this weird things happens in my
mind where I come back to the center
so what am i calling you buddy anything
from me Rick if you want what do you
prefer indifferent okay so should I call
you crucifer or Rick again industry
which do you prefer I guess I'll go with
crucifer project because that's that's
what I in my mind what I have yes so
tell me how what are we talking about
today cruson oh I'm not sure I have a
general idea you know I I guess
generally addiction okay feelings of
powerlessness and weakness I suppose in
daily life in getting out of that
sure so is that tell me is that how you
feel
uh generally yeah I mean I've been doing
pretty good right now
I guess I never really last for long and
then I tend to feel pretty powerless and
then what he was what do you mean by
powerless and hopeless like no matter
what I do in my life it doesn't matter
no matter how hard I try to fix
something it's it's never fixable you
know no matter how much effort I put
into it ya don't want to Thanks ah
there's so many things I'd like to fix
I'd like to get independence in my life
I'd like to fix my health I would like
to just get you you know I don't have
big aspirations I just like to get to a
place where I'm comfortable I'm happy
you know you know I'm nervous to be
homeless or offering myself [ __ ] yeah
that actually sounds like being
comfortable and happy i think is
actually a tall order that's not it oh
yeah yeah perhaps I guess not
immediately at risk of of decently happy
I suppose having more days that are
happy than not yeah so you know couse if
you come across as very reasonable and
very collected very calm very
intelligent thank you you too yeah thank
you
I'm not you're talking about these
emotions of powerlessness and
hopelessness but I'm not getting those
vibes from you
yeah it's very complicated and strange
you know mentally I think I've got it
there I know what I have to do and I
think I'm intelligent enough to do that
the best way to explain that I suppose
is it's a bit like an invisible wall you
like using game terms i suppose it's
like finding that invisible wall you
can't go any further in the game yeah
but you know I think that's that's a
great analogy can you help us understand
what that means in real life like what's
the invisible wall what does that mean
um I guess for me it's that part where
you know I know what I have to do but I
can't do it
and it's I can't put my finger on it I
don't know what needs to be done or have
the resources or yeah absolutely so you
can you can see it's like you can see
exactly where you're supposed to go but
as you start walking there you run into
a glitch and you're like well I need
that you know this is on the Waze keypad
I'm hitting the W and I should be moving
forward but I'm just not able to move
forward and you're able to kind of see
everything and you just yeah so so let's
talk a little bit about that and see if
we can understand why is it that when
you know what you need to do you can't
seem to do it and my sense is that you
know most people don't understand that
there are forces within them that are
actually trying to keep them in place
and maybe we can try to understand what
those are or their obstacles that
they're not able to see which means that
they aren't it's not that they're not
there it's just you're not able to
recognize it so well let's dig into that
so tell me something about what I mean
what do you feel powerless about so you
said that there are a lot of different
things and you're not asking for much
you mentioned health and stuff like that
so let's pick something and dig into it
um I don't know if I could pick
something specifically it's just general
life I seem to suck at even though I
know what to do you know little things
that everybody else seems to define that
I tend to struggle with yourself so here
we have problem number one right which
is what I asked you for something
specific like I asked you what direction
do you want to move in you say
what I'd no idea
III don't know I can't pick anything
specific there's problem number one
right so like what you're talking about
is sucking at life which I too have
sucked at life in in my life it's it's
something that I think is quite common
and the first problem is that like
you're trying to fix something that is
so broad and you don't know you're
saying that you see an invisible wall
but I think the basic problem is like
are you hitting W a s or D right like
which direction are you trying to go in
you're not able to give me a clear
direction so that's problem number one I
supposed to use that analogy it's like I
can't go in that direction
pressing WASD and I can't move yeah but
so so I'll ask you one more time and I
don't know if this is gonna be kind of
like oddly stubborn but pick something
sure let's say it's a health okay so
let's talk about health
tell me about your health yeah I'm very
overweight I I'm not sure how much I
weigh now but uh she's a good example
I've been going to the gym I've recently
started going again that hasn't been
great but before then goodbye I was
going figure I was going for like three
years straight now yeah that's what time
should be it is she was the kicker I
really didn't lose that much anyway
oh thanks because I'll say I'm watching
the right things but I know what to do
in fact I'd say I know probably more
about about you know healthy diet than
most people
yeah I absolutely have knowledge but I
just can't but it in place for some
reason I gained a tremendous amount of
strength and muscle mass but and I found
a passion for working out but that's
that's an example of an invisible wall
for me okay so you're saying that you
didn't make progress or you did make
progress I made progress
and I gained like something silly like
20 pounds more muscle in a year so I
made massive progress I gained a
tremendous amount of strength and size
but you know in my peak even though I
was working out I still weighed and I
have wait I weighed myself in that time
520 pounds okay yeah and so I can't wait
okay so I think that the natural thing
to do is to ask you about the other
things that you were doing to work out
right like what are you eating right and
things like that so they're like that's
the direction that instinctively we
would go I'm actually gonna steer clear
of it because I don't think that's the
issue so yep go ahead there's no you're
absolutely right I it was dyed
absolutely and I know what it is but I
don't okay so that's what we want to
talk about right the issue here isn't
that you know you need to fix your diet
the issue here is that you're not able
to fix it so yeah what what gets in the
way of what what is it let's so let's
define things so I think this is like
problem number one that people have is
that when you're saying that you suck at
life like I don't think that that is a
problem that is solvable that's not an
action there's no action you can take so
this is important to understand Chris so
I'm gonna just talk for a little bit
okay all right so if you want to fix a
problem it requires a human being to
take an action agree or disagree agree
so the first problem is like what is the
action to fix sucking it life but to do
something about it
what does that mean to do something
about it that's not an action to take
action towards fix yourself whatever
yeah what is that like I'm asking you so
I come to you crucify nice a I suck at
life what should I do
good right that's a goal that's not an
action right do you see that you see the
difference here sure you hear so I think
the first problem that many people
suffer form gamers especially is that
they pick they focus on goals
and don't define their problems in terms
of like actionable solutions yes yeah
yeah right so so that's the first thing
that we've got to change because the
human mind cannot you're talking about
an invisible wall but I what I'm getting
from you is not just a wall we'll get to
what that wall is but a sense of like
lack of direction about what what you
want to go you know that you want to
achieve a goal like this is like saying
like I want to be a millionaire one day
gosh right that's and then but what's
the action how do I become a millionaire
Yeah right so I think the first problem
is that your your prob the way that you
define your problem is not a definition
that leads to a solution you're defining
your problem like you can't fix someone
who sucks at life that's not something
you can fix
yeah does that make sense you with me
yeah totally
so this is what happens when we so the
really interesting thing about this you
play video games oh yeah yeah a lot no
I'm pretty pretty controls it accounts
the video games how many what do you
play anything recently I've been
installed eval you cuz my girlfriend's
been playing it a lot have a bit of fun
with herself okay I've been playing that
much okay that's something that we got
to explore at some point why you need a
better farm than your girlfriend to run
in her face yeah did you did you play a
lot of games when you were growing up
yeah yeah I think so like what oh I was
super into you my show again Motown be
oblivion when I was very young yeah it's
awesome yeah I I didn't have a game or I
couldn't afford the game for longest
time I just remember watching YouTube
videos every single day on it and then
when I eventually got it I think you
pretty much everything about the game
and I loved it thanks funny I remember
the first time I played the Battle of
kawatche yeah because I hadn't I didn't
know anything about it I was like this
is insane
it's it's like one of my best gaming
memories ever the
Bolivians fantastic so I think you know
let's just talk about oblivion for a
second so like how does oblivion tell
you have you played morrowind
introduction okay so this is gonna be
kind of obscure and I I don't think most
people are gonna get this but do you
understand like what do you like how do
you how can I say this so the problem
that gamers have is basically like the
difference between morrowind
and Oblivion they're used to playing
oblivion but real life is like morrowind
it's not like oblivion and I'll tell you
exactly what I mean by that in in
morrowind
do you know what a quest looks like in
morrowind No so this is kind of weird
because they don't make quests like this
anymore morrowind was a game where they
would tell you like hey I want you to go
to this cave and get this thing just
like in Oblivion and all of the other
games like Wow and stuff like that the
difference is they would tell you no
they wouldn't give you any information
or they give you like bizarre directions
about how to get there there are no
quest markers they tell you like you
need to leave from the South Gate and
follow the river until you cross the
river and once you cross the river
instead of getting back on the road you
need to head east and then there's gonna
be a fork in the road and then you need
to head south and then there's gonna be
a big rock and then from the big rock
you go there what is oblivion do when it
gives you a quest
it gives you an objective marker yeah
right so gamers are really good at
following a quest marker but the problem
is when you say you suck at life like
what is the quest marker for that ya
don't have one exactly right so you say
you know what you need to do because
you're kind of saying like okay I need
to improve my diet but improving your
diet is not actually a quest marker it's
a goal it's like a nebulous objective
yeah the question is what are the
actions that you need to take because
sucking it life is like I don't I mean
that's not something you can fix
yeah right so like let's
let's talk about so what is something
that you want to change like like define
something for me you want to go with
back to wait we can go back to wait
that's fine uh sure
okay let's just wait because we've
established it it's okay so what if I
were to tell you crucify can't lose
weight it's impossible what I say being
correct right okay so tell me what is
the action that results in weight loss
uh eating healthy foods eating less okay
so if I if I so this is important to
understand what is the verb so weight
loss is not a verb right but what is
weight loss like what is it I get what
you're saying I mean explain it to
everyone else
sure sure is I'm not making something no
did I lose weight you can't just say you
know I'm gonna lose weight and then not
do anything you have to go you have to
buy healthy foods you have to stock your
shelves at home with only healthy foods
right so do you do that you don't
healthy no yes No okay right see now
we're getting somewhere right so now
there's a difference between losing so
this is important you can't lose weight
that's not an action you can go and buy
healthy foods and stock them on your
shelf that is not weight loss agreed jr.
but that is how you get to weight loss
mmm so in your mind I think part of your
problem is that you're thinking in terms
of goals and you're not thinking in
terms of actions but as a human being
you cannot actually accomplish a goal
you can only take an action
I see you krinkle your eyebrows which is
perfect so tell me what's what are you
thinking um I'm thinking in general I
don't like I know that it takes actions
and I know what I have to do but perhaps
it's an issue of motivation rather than
the not taking action
because I actively make an attempt to
take action
okay okay so I think that's a piece of
it too so step one is to first of all
recognize that sucking at life is not a
solvable problem so we have to define
something in a way that we have to set a
quest marker that you can move towards
so some people struggle because they the
goals that they set for themselves are
so nebulous that they don't know how to
start and when you say you suck at life
that screams to me I don't know where to
start because you say that every
dimension of my life is a problem right
so that is a problem of ill-defined
problems so yeah totally get you to
shorten this a little bit I guess I
explained it badly I mean I untie can
action I'm going to the gym that's a
form of action I'm doing yep
great attempting of my best to eat
healthier by filling my shopping with
healthier foods meat and veggies I you
know bindery also it makes it easier for
me to cook takes less time things like
that great
yeah so it feels like that's not the
issue
okay so let's yeah let's move so what do
you think is the issue
so that's the issue I don't know what
the issue is and I can't put my finger
on it okay but I don't think it's it's a
matter of I get what you're saying you
know you have to focus on each step
you're taking instead of yeah when you
end up and yeah I'm not sure it's okay
so what happens when you try to take a
step so you're saying that when you try
to take a step you've defined that you
need to take one step forward
something gets in the way of you taking
a step forward and what what goes into
that
sure here's another thing right I
currently not working I would like to
have more money by getting a job is
working but whenever I do try to get a
job and work and I've been anywhere from
IT support at a school to coca-cola
salesperson I end up getting depressed
and suicidal
in fact I I'm on disability because
whenever I go into a job I I don't care
about my life anymore
so it's strange yeah what's strange
about that I I think it's strange
because I don't have the motivation to
maintain my life I guess I mean if you
told me you need to get a job right now
otherwise you're homeless you know
you're gonna die I don't think it would
change what I did on a daily basis
hmm yeah okay and I tribute for how i
lost thinking perhaps maybe that has
that's a lot of the issue maybe yeah so
I think it's strange that when you start
to actually move towards your quest
marker you feel depressed and suicidal
yes that's really strange I think we've
got to figure out what's the deal there
because I think part of the reason that
you're not making progress per se is
because when you make progress you start
to feel worse that's what I'm hearing
from you that's very it's not as strange
as people think but I'm gonna call that
strange so let's understand what the
[ __ ] is going on there
right I never thought about that but
that actually is pretty accurate that's
never clicked with me before but that's
okay so are you thinking about other
things in your life for which that's
true yeah tell me about this I will
fitness it seems to be whenever I get
whenever I'm making progress it goes
downhill again worse now let's be clear
when you say goes downhill are you
talking about the physical progress that
you've made or you start to feel
something similar to when you get a job
I'm soon mental accident right so now
we're on to something we're on to a
pattern where when crucifix one step
forward something in his mind awakens
and makes you feel worse and stops you
from moving forward
- strange yes so now we are
spray-painting the wall right there's
this wall and you haven't seen it before
and now we're spray-painting and it's
like hey there's something here let's
figure out what this is
so what other parts of your life do you
think that happens
specifically I mean we can we can say a
lot of things with this generally
looking after myself day-to-day you know
the motivation to get up in the shower
when I run like you know keeping my
house clean and I'm getting better so to
speak getting out of that slump yeah
looking after myself
it comes back and I get more and more
depressed and more progress I made yeah
like isn't that weird man yeah
so now you're describing something that
is not the original problem you were
describing you were saying when you try
to move forward there's an invisible
wall that prevents you from moving
forward but what I'm hearing from you is
something else it's like you're attached
to a spot with a rubber band
and the harder you run away from the
spot the harder the rubber band pulls
you back yeah yeah right so the first
thing is like that's very different from
a wall
i muted no no like what are you thinking
hey yeah okay oh okay there we go
what was that I don't know I think we
just broke something okay
we're we were making progress and
discord rubber-banded us back it was the
power of my brain clinking yeah that's
what happens we just it just blows it
blows our internet connections out the
wazoo
okay so let's talk about the rubber band
okay so let's tell me how so let's pick
one of these things so now so the
interesting thing is you know earlier I
was saying that if you suck at life
that's like too big of a problem to
solve but what I'm recognizing now is
like maybe that was actually idiotic of
me because what I'm seeing is that you
have one thing one pattern that prevents
you from moving forward in lots of
different directions
and that maybe the problem isn't in
defining you know it doesn't matter
whether you're trying to move north
south east or west the problem is that
you're attached by a rubber band and so
like that your instinctive
characterization of the problem was
actually better than mine and it was and
we're seeing something different which
is that what you were saying originally
so let's talk let's dig into one of
these and try to understand what that
rubber band is so pick something [ __ ]
okay let's pick the job saying yeah yeah
after about a week I feel suicidal can't
force myself to go to the job anymore
and I'm just not showing up okay so tell
me about how do you feel when you apply
for a job excited
confident it's not something pleasant I
don't really like traditional sort of
job but it's something you have to do
and I feel a bit of pride I don't feel
particularly know
and the the first week is usually you
know fun at some day and then
immediately yours down in what way and
so one day I just can't [ __ ] do this
one day I can't get out of bed one day
before that happens like so tell me what
day three of your job is like starting
to get kind of sick of this okay and
what kind of thoughts do you have when
you start to get kind of sick of this I
don't want to do this [ __ ] why
should I yeah why should I be working
towards someone else's success wasting
time sure I'm not gonna get this time
back the average person spends a massive
majority of their life working instead
of living yeah yeah so that's good I'm
just trying to think about how to
explain this okay so so the first thing
that I want you to notice is that when
we think about being unable to follow
through with a behavior there's another
like minor misdiagnosis that you made
which is that you say that one day I
wake up and I just can't do it anymore
right so like that's like the rubber
band snapping back into place but the
main thing to understand crucifies that
the tension in that rubber band actually
starts way before the snapback like if
I'm moving against a rubber band I'm
gonna feel it pulling against me pulling
against me pull against me on day three
day four day five day six by day seven
you snap back yeah so if you want to
stay in your job you have to figure out
like that's that's tension that's
building up over the course of the week
and you're not doing anything about an
intention so of course it's gonna
overwhelm you at some point yeah so I
would hypothesize that you are
neglectful of your thoughts and your
feelings up until the breaking point
yeah that you power through you're a
power through kind of guy like you just
tough it out and you're like okay I'm
gonna go I have to pull myself out of
bed I don't want to work for someone
else's [ __ ] success like people waste
their time but I'm gonna I gotta work so
I'm gonna get up
I'm gonna go to go to work I'm gonna
pull myself out of my bed I'm gonna use
willpower to you know go to work the
next day and then overtime what's
happening is you've got this mental like
trash
that's like building up in your mind and
then at some point the mental trash
overwhelms you and then you know you
just ghost them so what do you think you
should do about that I if I knew I think
I'd fixed it yep
okay so so I think the problem here is
that is that mental trash enters you
need to like offload it like as it's
happening perhaps a large part of me
doesn't want to [ __ ] work though that
job you know yep like that
that's the trash so here's the problem
is that you don't want to let go of your
trash yeah I don't I don't want to
[ __ ] work shitty jobs that mean
nothing there you go
right so now we come to the heart of it
crucify is your problem is ego your
problem is arrogance it's not
hopelessness it's not powerlessness
it's [ __ ] ego what do you think about
that
uh-huh I I don't think I think I
disagree but I'm wrong that I disagree
no no I'm not sure I been right once
before today and I've been wrong so let
go ahead and disagree I could be wrong
maybe I want to disagree because the
matter but possible that's some real
Freudian level stuff you've got going on
there I feel like I don't feel
particularly arrogant but I feel like
that's what an arrogant I think perhaps
so this is important I don't think
you're arrogant in the standard way I
think you're arrogant in a son script or
yogic way and I'll tell you specifically
you have a very subtle arrogance you're
not mean to other people you don't think
your other your other people but I think
when you get one of those jobs you start
to think lots of thoughts like you are
better than this this job is too lowly
for you and so you don't want it anymore
and you can only subject yourself to
that for a certain amount of time
totally accurate I wouldn't say the jobs
too lowly for me I would say it takes I
admire people who could do a job like
that because they're hard workers than
me and they can deal with [ __ ]
better than I can
does that make sense yes so I think
there are subtleties here okay so I
think the first thing is that you do
have some ego around this job because I
do think that you feel like you're too
good for it the other thing is that you
have a very defined sense of who you are
and who you aren't and your problem is
that you're not willing to let go of
that
you
like you're not you're not the kind of
person who can work a job like this
how does that statement resonate with
you it resonates a lot well so I think
you go ahead go ahead
I feel like that applies to nearly every
single job available to me on the
standard sort of job market so this
let's I completely agree and this is
your problem so I want you to just
understand this so I don't think you're
arrogant in the standard sense but I I
shouldn't be working a job like this
this is not the kind of job that I
should have that's a statement of
arrogance yeah does that make sense what
we you agree with that yeah sure that's
the problem so you have to like let go
over the fact that the only thing that
you can get are shitty jobs and the
problem is like you get excited about a
job you go there and then every day that
goes by that ego starts to pile up right
and says like this is stupid
I can't do this this is boring this is I
don't think you quite think this is
beneath you because but I think there's
a lot of like shame and ego involved
with like the jobs that you can get and
so like you don't want to work because
those are not the jobs that you want to
work yeah totally but that's that's the
problem it's not that you're not willing
to work it's that you don't want it's
not that you can't work it's that you
don't want to work this is not the kind
of [ __ ] job that you want yeah yeah
that's right that's right I think I'm a
very hard worker actually I think you
are too I think your problem is not that
you're stupid is not that you're lazy in
fact I think you have an immense amount
of willpower people may look at you and
they may think you're lazy they may
think that you're not hard-working I
completely disagree I think your problem
is that you're your ego I think your
problem is that you're not willing to
work that job for longer than a week
yeah it's straight ensuring this when my
entire life I've been totally obviously
you know ya can told that you're lazy
not working hard enough you need to just
do it and it doesn't feel that simple to
you and then you just try to do it and
fail
I suppose so this is why I think you
actually have a lot of willpower because
you try to do it despite these heavy
heavy forces pulling you back you can
get up and apply for a job again and
again and again that actually is
incredibly resilient
you know your stamin is actually really
high I think you have a lot of willpower
because walking around inside your head
is like it's hard to overcome those
forces within you but you're able to do
it for stretches of time like that's
actually pretty amazing
think your problem is that you're not
willing to accept where you are right
now and that getting out of your
position is going to involve some pretty
demeaning stuff
you're gonna have to start huh you tell
me are you telling me to stop kami
stop what are you telling me to stop
camping on my three cans or something
I'm not a mother but Sir what little
joke little joke go ahead sorry help I
didn't understand yeah that's okay I I
have to like bring the mood up a little
does get a little bit emotional because
you're a you're a wholesome man
so so what what let's talk about that
what were you feeling emotionally why
did you have to break them up
I I don't want to try on your [ __ ]
Street okay what makes you feel like
crying
not sure it's it's nice to know that
you're not just a piece of [ __ ] and that
you're kind of working really hard we'll
try so just think about this screw so
think about this these are not bad tears
these are good tears and what are you
doing holding back moving away from them
you have gotten so used to the idea that
you are lazy and that you're worthless
that when you start to realize that
you're not it becomes unfamiliar
territory and you run no wonder you're
stuck because the parts of you that are
actually there within you that can help
you move forward that are amazing and
intelligent and full of willpower and
stamina when you see them something
about that like scares the [ __ ] out of
you and you move away from it don't move
away man move towards it look where did
you get this idea that you're like lazy
and and worthless like where does that
come from oh I think you know maybe my
family growing up you know I guess
they're not psychiatrists right so they
don't know any better they just want to
help you but they you know but there is
a small part of me that says that this
is [ __ ] and that's not true and that
I am just lazy you know and that you're
just telling me what I want to share
maybe why I'm accepting that because I
want to share it so this is important
how does that part of you make you feel
and I'll tell you after you I mean I
have the hypothesis but how does that
part of you make you feel the pocket
doubts yeah yep the part that thinks
that you're lazy yes see that's weird
it makes you feel comfortable so like
let's just pause and look at that the
part of you that keeps you down makes
you feel comfortable and now you're even
looking all over the place the part of
you that makes you feel hopeful about
yourself
you retreat from you have to break the
tension by making a joke so like just
look at your mind for a second you
gravitate comfortable is like okay if
I'm lazy like I can deal with that I've
been told that in my entire life
that is comfortable territory it's a
game that I played before I know how to
play that game and I'm asking you to
play a different game we say and if you
want to change your life you have to you
can't play the game where you gravitate
towards the comfort of being lazy and a
failure you've got a risk
you've got to risk the possibility that
you're actually worth something that you
can accomplish a lot that if you go to
one job you're terrified that one job
won't lead to another better job and so
you're not willing to play that game
because you don't know if you're gonna
waste your whole life in a call center
that thought is terrifying to you and
you don't know if you're gonna be able
to move beyond that and so if there's
that chance of failure you would rather
just quit here's the thing you've got to
take a chance that you are better than
what you think you are and that's a
dangerous game
what are you thinking what are you
feeling it's uh it's hard to process
mm-hmm talk to uh to agree with you and
I feel bad for not being able to yeah
that's okay you don't have to agree with
me so can we agree on one thing so I
want to just track back on what's said
when I said something to you that made
you feel good about yourself how did
that make you feel relieved but also a
little bit ashamed for some reason yep
right so and then you you moved away
from it can we agree on that yeah okay
and when we talk about you being that
when there's that doubting voice in the
back of your mind that says actually
this guy is just telling you this
because he's a nice guy and he says this
to everyone he's not really talking
about me he doesn't really understand me
he's just saying that because that's
what he does how does how does that
voice make you feel do you move towards
it or do you move away from it away no
no towards it towards that right so like
even if we even if we don't even if I'm
wrong can we at least agree that your
mind is doing something kind of funny
that it's moving away from the things
that actually make you feel hopeful and
it's moving towards the things that make
you feel hopeless there's safety and
comfort and being lazy and hopeless and
sucking at life yeah and there's
discomfort in the possibility that
you're something more like those are
your emotional reactions right that's
not coming from me yeah and now we have
this other idea which like kind of
parallels with the wall in the rubber
band that the weird thing is it's not
that something's holding you back it's
that when you try to take a step forward
instead of embracing the possibility
that you're worth something and that you
can accomplish something that rubber
band pulls you back to that corner of
your mind that says that you're lazy and
makes you
overleaf that's you see that it's the
same thing so we're we're seeing a
microcosm of what's happening is
something going on are you okay uh no
I'm okay okay you're just like looking
around a lot and I'm trying to figure
out am I making you uncomfortable no no
no no this is weird yeah
what's weird tell me what tell me what
that means I didn't think I was I mean I
I always thought there was something
different and I was sort of [ __ ] up
and I needed help yeah I didn't expect
this to be the issue I suppose some sort
of strange that such a it feels I don't
deserve to have this issue it seems like
it feels like I'm being told the issue
is that you're actually really great
person and you just need to apply
yourself or something or have faith in
yourself and that feels unworthy and
stupid yeah absolutely you know why it's
stupid so this may be confusing for
people right the reason it feels stupid
because like if that was the issue
you're even more of a failure because
this means that you always had the
option to do a good job you just chose
not to yeah right like this is important
this is ego too because if it was
something so simple as this then you're
a real idiot because you didn't have to
live this life but if the issue is
something much larger much more grand
and much more devastating then you have
an excuse for the life that you live and
this is scary because like this is
something that you need to understand
crucifer I mean this is gonna sound kind
of cheesy but with great power comes
great responsibility and what I see
within you is great power and it's
absolutely your responsibility
your problem is like it's not one of
powerlessness it's like the opposite and
what did you feel when I said that
you like uh you were I I feel really bad
but I still feel like it's [ __ ] but
what do you mean by feel really bad I
feel bad for thinking it's [ __ ]
that's okay you're allowed to think it I
want to believe it so much I feel like
it's too good to be true and I can't get
over this hurdle that's fine that
bothers me that's okay don't don't try
to get over the hurdle I wouldn't I
wouldn't beat yourself up for that I
don't think you need to get over the
hurdle it makes me it feels like it's
just like you telling me that I'm not
confident enough in myself but I feel
like I'm very confident
but I feel like it's probably [ __ ]
then that makes you right and I don't
want you to be right because that means
I'm wrong yeah so what do we call that
ah
I'm not sure is this like a some twitch
chat twit twit chat understands ego
right that's your [ __ ] problem man
who tweet chat and these guys these guys
aren't trained right they're there
they're like they're noobs because
because I'll tell you that here's the
operative words I don't want you to be
right I want you to be wrong and I want
to be right because it would be easier
and more comfortable for me if you were
less and I could keep sort of just
thinking I'm a piece of [ __ ] yes
see now you're seeing
so let this be a lesson to everyone that
if you want to grow it's not easy right
because growing is abandoning the things
that you believe about yourself growing
is actually the process of abandoning
what works it's hard growth isn't easy
because this has worked for you you've
created a comfortable life right and
it's kind of like you're just kind of
like existing right now and you've
created a life that's like decent in a
lot of ways and what I'm asking you to
duke rusev is risk it
if you really want to change you've got
a risk you've got a risk because right
now you have like you have this like
little little got this little safety
you've got this trump card in your hand
which is that you're not really giving
it your all and you're bowing out so you
have some excuse your ego has this
refuge right it's like there's a
difference between the shame of working
a dead-end job and not getting promoted
and like working a dead-end job and
quitting after a week you protect
yourself from the possibility you
protect yourself from so many things
that would be so devastating for you
because like what if you worked at the
call center and you're smart right cuz
you're a smart guy like I can tell that
you like a very smart guy and as smart
as you are if you don't get promoted
egos not gonna like that
ya see you say I'm a smart guy but I I
mean I also dropped out of school
dropped out of college you know I
actually that's a pretty big trend huh
yep yeah why did you drop out of college
Mike's
it's sort of different I suppose because
my my lecturer at the time did kind of
[ __ ] me over a lot and she was a [ __ ]
probably still is a [ __ ] okay just so
men out there if she's watching I hate
you okay something there yeah well I
mean yeah no I we came to like the last
week before I was you know graduated
nice way I guess well sure he gets go
over that but uh I was sick for a week
fried of that and she took me out of my
group that I was working with for like
an entire year and then when I said well
what do I do now I put all of my work
into the screw rod scripts recorded [ __ ]
and I did a lot of stuff most of it was
my idea
she said guess you're gonna do years
worth of work in a week and so I walked
out and didn't come back to the cost
yeah boy did you get screwed over yeah
yeah and high school yeah I got bullied
quite a bit it was really unhealthy time
I was in fights every day that wasn't
becoming a very good person that was
quite a bad person and suicidal every
day and thankfully my parents pulled me
out so that's a different situation too
yeah I'm feeling like that's different
yeah both different yeah so maybe it's
not I still think there's a lot of ego
with the teacher yeah right you see that
yeah yeah I saw it in general maybe
okay yeah what do you mean by that uh
growing up I always seem to have an
issue with authority figures like as you
know maybe I don't have it so much now I
definitely did I never got along with my
ass of lecturers or teachers disagreed
with them a lot
okay I said that's arrogance right and I
think that's pretty typical growing up I
don't know I I don't think that's the
ego that I'm talking about
it could be but I think so crucify you
what are you thinking about what we've
talked about today so we're we're gonna
have to wrap up in like maybe five to
ten minutes or see if people have
questions so let's just let's try to
find some kind of I mean I feel like
you've made progress today I've kind of
more lost today yep yeah I guess
progress yeah
tell me why you found us know what to do
with myself I don't know this is really
overwhelming I suppose yeah I see that
that's why okay so let me try to help
you okay so I I think I can see why you
feel overwhelmed because what I'm doing
is I'm taking away I'm pulling the rug
out from under you yeah right you've
conceptualized your life in some way and
you're telling me that you suck at life
and so then what I'm trying to do and I
think what we've done is change the
conception for which you're you have
about your life and I think that is a
good but painful experience that we've
left you lost because like I've told you
that the narrative that you've built
your life on is actually untrue
and that instead of being lazy in
sucking it life you're actually
intelligent and capable and you were
giving me this evidence I'm not just
saying this because I'm a nice guy when
you say I've been working on a project
for a year that I've been directing and
doing most of the work for and I got
kicked out of it one week from
completion what I hear is that maybe
this guy has like interpersonal problems
and doesn't understand like like what
happened in that situation there seems
to be another side of that story but I'm
also hearing that you were able to like
run a project for a year where you did
most of the heavy lifting which is
actually consistent with what I think
about so I don't think that you're
incapable but that's dangerous because
if you're capable then whose fault is it
that you're in this situation I don't
okay I know I know you don't so then we
get to this so this is what I want you
to focus on is that there are some
things in life so I want you to stop
thinking so the invisible wall is a lack
of capability right those two things are
the same but the rubberband is not like
your focus on you being capable is the
or incapable is the rubberband pulling
you back and we can see evidence of that
because when you actually start to move
forward what happened
I go back yes it's you that goes
backwards it's you're not telling me
that you fail you're not you've never
said that to me right you say that when
I am actually making progress this weird
things happens in my mind where I come
back to the center yeah that's not a
lack of capability that's like something
you pulling you back to the center
that's that's like something within you
so if you want and the other thing is
this is pervasive in your life you see
it in working out you see it in school
you see it in jobs there's something
about you and they're like the one
emotional moment that you just you know
head like you just made some kind of
weird joke I I still understand but like
you know I'm sure it was and and so like
that's the one time over this interview
I mean I've called you all kinds of
things that people may find offensive
and none of that you had to block you
don't have to block any of it right you
don't even realize I was saying this
stuff some of the stuff that I've said
to use it like could be mean in other
circumstances yeah the thing that you
huh I think I'm wrong yes I think so I
want you to watch this interview right
and see what it is that you retreat from
we see you running away from it and
that's actually the feeling of hope and
and it's not as simple as like you're
saying I think you're saying that I just
need confidence and believing in myself
no man like that's it's not that simple
it's way harder than that
what you need to do is like what budva
did in his life which is like become
enlightened like you'd that's the road
you're walking it's a hard road it's
it's a road about grappling against
yourself the search for enlightenment is
it has nothing to do at the external
world it has to do it the final boss of
life is yourself
it's not anything else it's you and
you're saying like oh I just need to
have content no man like you don't
understand like how big this like
Tyrannosaurus Rex of yourself is that
you have to overcome but I have faith
that you can do it you just need to
start trying
so through it not just do it awareness
what your problem has never been your
inability to just do it in fact you've
told me time and time again that you're
capable of just doing it you pull
yourself out of the gutter and you apply
for a job and you show up there and then
the next day you just do it and the next
day you just do it and the next day that
you just do it and eventually you just
run out of energy and you quit your
problem is not just doing it your
problem is a lack of awareness about
what are the forces inside you that keep
you from doing it so this is what I want
you to pay attention to I want you to
try something you pick what it is Jim
job whatever and I want you to look for
this this dichotomy look for this
confusing thing look for this sense that
as you start to move up you pull
yourself back notice that force within
you notice the force of the rubber band
and see it happening and then recognize
that it's not actually a lack of
capability it's you yourself are telling
yourself to retreat to the safety of
your life of nothingness see that thing
it's like a gravitational pull and see
that thing happening within you if you
give in to it that's fine if you don't
give in to it that's better but the most
important thing is awareness awareness
awareness understanding understanding
understanding the reason that you can't
see the wall is because it's not there
man it's a rubber band it's not a wall
so the solution to the issue is to
understand when it's happening what's
happening and you can try to push don't
even try to push through that's even
like let it happen just watch first okay
pushing through is what you do what I
would say is see that it happens and
then actually don't push through it
accept it and move on despite it okay
understand that that is a part of you
understand that you have this little
thing that's sitting on your shoulder
that's gonna be with you
and it doesn't mean that you push it off
you don't fight against it you
acknowledge it and you move forward
that's actually a solution it's not
pushing through because pushing through
is like I know it sounds like this is a
semantic thing but good but you don't
want to just pushing through implies
blindness to me yeah right you want to
acknowledge it and understand that you
may not be ready to push you may not be
ready to accept it what you actually
need towards yourself is not pushing
through also implies like a certain
sense of combating or antagonism it's
like you versus it that's not a battle
you can win the games that you play
against yourself only have one loser
sure right so like you don't want to
play that game what you actually need
towards yourself is compassion
acknowledgement/recognition and
compassion not willpower not energy not
intelligence see that thing happening
within you you'll be amazed if you
practice this yeah and then if it
happens you cut yourself some slack
right you can say okay day three I don't
want to go to work I feel like this is a
waste of time and then you say oh this
is that part of me I don't know what it
is it's bitter it feels like this is
beneath me it's egotistical like that's
a piece of me that is activating within
my mind because it's not there right now
it only happens when you like leave the
house and try to do something with your
life like you see that means like a trap
that it's like the ego trap that arises
when you try to do something with your
life yeah and if you fall victim to it
that's fine other things practically you
can do do you see a therapist
I would like to okay do you not live
where do you live I live in the UK okay
so mental was kind of horrible okay so
as best as you can try to find a
therapist because I think if you can get
some assistance if you could party up
with someone and work through this stuff
as it's happening I think it's gonna
help
I see a consultant psychiatrist every
few months but last conversation I had
with them was pretty a pretty ridiculous
in the band I've asked them for to see a
therapist but they don't seem willing
that's strange I don't understand the UK
health system sorry you're in that
situation yeah um I mean I I know that
sometimes you know psychiatrists they
don't do a great job and I'm sorry
you're kind of in that situation but I
think that as best as you can try to
find someone to help you work through
this stuff the last thing is meditate so
if you really want to get good at this
meditation is the practice of noticing
things within yourself so that they do
not have control that is what meditation
is about yeah so as you meditate you
will notice forces like as you train
yourself to meditate you train yourself
to focus your attention on the thing
that you choose to focus your attention
on and literally the reason that I want
you to meditate is as this specter Rises
within you as this like trap rises
within you that's thinking all these
thoughts if you are a trained meditator
you can actually tell your mind I'm not
gonna look over here all of these
thoughts about how this is worthless and
my boss is an [ __ ] and I'm working
for someone else's stuff in capitalism
is bad you co you look over here and you
say I'm gonna work because this is what
I've decided for myself yeah and that
this is what I want to do what would you
recommend for me
- do you know I looked at John Marcin
and I really hate the idea of doing
anything I have my own aspirations that
I'd like to do yep but I felt like I had
a lack of focus and I lost interest and
maybe that was just this rubber banding
now that I would like to try out again
yes I think ego exists in the space
between your aspirations and the job
that you can get so this is important
the wider the job that you want is from
the job that you can get the bigger your
ego is going to be yeah and you just
have to understand like you have to see
that that's ego and you just don't want
a go to be running your life so if you
decide to get a job I think get a job
and just recognize that you're gonna
feel bad for a while and recognize that
the reason that you're getting the job
is not to get a job not to get a career
not to make money the reason you are
getting a job crucify you can have an
experimental laboratory for yourself in
the feelings that arise that that
happened within you when you try to move
forward in life that's the reason you
need to get a job if you get a job
fantastic if you make money fantastic if
you get promoted fantastic you need to
start living your life as a laboratory
because your problem is a lack of
understanding and really I mean I said
this earlier but I think the the reason
if the wall is invisible because it's
like that's not what's holding you back
that's why you can't see it so you have
to understand what's holding you back
and the only way to do that is to like
get in the ring and like get into the
water and feel your feelings see what
happens within yourself and ideal it's
very hard to do on your own by the way
so like really good if you can find some
kind of professional help even if you
enjoy like a meditation center or
something like that and have that
meditation centers yeah
oh well I don't know where you live but
maybe there's I live in Wales in the UK
it's kind of a pretty shitty where I
live in swarms that we don't have many
like sounds like that but I can
certainly try meditating yeah so so
meditate on it before okay so we're
gonna do we're gonna do meditation now
unless you have questions hold on one
second let me just see if other people
have questions
yeah I'd love time so any course I have
any questions I
I have a chat thing boomer into my way
into how do you get anyone without
learning about all this technical oh
it's it's it's great I mean I have so
many people to help me so okay let me
just see
okay
okay I'm seeing lots of questions I
don't think
I don't think any of them were really
directed towards you per se
you
okay
okay so like here here someone's asking
what kind of work would you burn to do
what are your aspirations that's a good
question
voice acting is something I'd love to do
well dude twitch chat was talking about
that they think that you'd be a great Oh
exhibit yeah yeah I saw it the entire
time yeah I think I do I think I'd be a
really good voice actor but I guess
that's the issue right if I felt like I
was a gonna be a [ __ ] voice actor I
guess I'd be one by now isn't that my
issue yes so that well I mean on a
practical sense there may be like how do
you become a voice actor I have no idea
it's kind of difficult I suppose it
would just be trying out for different
roles getting your voice out there yeah
well that's great man so I think you
should try that let's just move to LA
okay mm-hmm all right so so I think some
of these questions are relate to you but
I think they're more directed towards me
so that they're questions like how can
you overcome the ego that arises within
what you're saying sounds good to him
but his problem is ignoring what should
be done how can he change that so like
these are questions that I think or if
he if he tries to improve and then gets
pulled back by the rubber and says screw
everything we talked about I'm going to
my comfort zone what should one do to
prevent that and still stick to what one
knows is needed to improve okay these
are all questions that I think are
related to you so first of all Creuset I
really want to thank you for coming on
because I do for having you gave me the
time of day on nobody I I did reach out
to you when you had like 200 years in
the stream so didn't expect reckful then
you know sky and then destiny to come on
so that was great
in my time today why do you think you're
nobody
haha [ __ ] I am like it why wouldn't I
give you the time of day because I have
nothing to give back to you well I guess
I have to give me something back huh
yeah yeah well I guess I'm wrong how
does that feel pretty shitty ha
judgement yep
so hard to admit that you have Worth and
value and you've helped other people man
there's your [ __ ] problem I'd like to
help people more good start by helping
yourself sure yeah see like it's all
wrapped up in there like this sort of
pervasive sense of lack of self-worth
and inability to help someone that I'm
is someone and you're and no one like
who do you think is helping more people
right now me are you but you definitely
I disagree
if I if I just came on stream and
started talking I don't think I'd
helping you you being sure no I couldn't
come to it I wouldn't have figured out
what this situation was yeah but you're
the like who are people learning from me
are you both sure I think they're
learning more from you than they're
learning from me I think they see
themselves within you and I think it
takes a certain amount of courage to
come on here and to air your dirty
laundry and to speak honestly and
authentically about yourself and I don't
know if you recognize this but crucifer
you watch this stream like it's not
about me talking it's about the people
who come on that's what you resonate
with like you get that like people are
here
and that so that's like I know it's hard
for you to accept and I know you keep on
defaulting to this you're wrong I'm
right I mean you're right and I'm wrong
like forget about that just just sit
with the idea that you're actually
helping people and that you're like a
decent person and that just try sitting
with it for a little I know it's gonna
make you uncomfortable and then try to
do something and when you do something
notice those two voices within you if
they're little bits that are gonna say
oh you're actually like good at this and
you can actually accomplish things and
people care about you and they value you
and there's gonna be this big voice that
says no no no no no no no no no no I'm
worthless [ __ ] this I'm just gonna go
home because I can't do it I'm disabled
listen to those two voices and recognize
them yeah that's how you get power over
them yeah if you're if you're a dental
work done uh yeah you ever been numbed
up with like lidocaine or anything yeah
I had no idea was coming to yeah how's
your control over your mouth when you're
numbed up pretty cool and what happens
when you can start to feel again um
should I know maybe you start slowly
getting control back yeah how's your
control over your mouth now pretty
pretty good yeah
awareness proceeds control if you want
to control it you have to feel it you
know so start with awareness and start
with control yeah so let's do meditation
I'm gonna teach you knotti we're gonna
do not II should be today is there a
particular meditation that you like or
don't like um no really I just do
breathing so we're gonna do a particular
breathing exercise yeah is your nose
clogged no no okay so on point we're
gonna do so
okay we're gonna do alternate nostril
breathing so do this with your right
hand
yep great so take your thumb and block
your right nostril breathe in through
your left switch and breathe out in
through the same nostril switch out in
again switch out close your eyes
continue at your own pace breathing in
switching breathing out and then in
again we'll practice for three minutes
you
go ahead and finish the round that
you're on let your eyes remain closed
let your hands relax
notice the natural slowing of your
breath
you
notice the calmness within
thoughts may come and go
and now we're going to breathe in for
three seconds and out for three
breathe in for three and out for five
in four three and out four seven
and in four three and out for nine
you
I take your palms and put them together
in front of you touch your palms in
front of you and rub palms together rub
rub rub rub rub and then feel the heat
and the friction and cut them over your
eyes as you exhale with your nut next
breath open your eyes let your palms
come down all righty how you feeling man
okay yeah good strong work today
you
you know through you so if you're
struggling like if you feel those
feelings then you know the rubber band
or whatever sensations feeling good or
feeling bad
you can sit and meditate and kind of
work through those so you're not like
pushing them away you're not pushing
them out or you're not pushing through
them just let them be within you and
then let your mind choose what you are
going to do in spite of your feelings
let them be with you carry them but move
in the direction that you're moving okay
good all right thank you very much man
thank you